
what is a branch in git ?? 

branching a stragety to not to distrub the production code. 
Always we have production code in master branch 

if developers use this master branch and make changes to that master 
branch then there is a chance of having issues/bugs in code. 
or the code compaliation may fail or the build may fail. or some functionality
may break in production systems.

so we will never give access to master branch. if developers want to work 
with master branch they can create there on branchs from master. 
it is like making a copy of master branch. each branch can have its own 
name.so developers can work on the newly created branches and they make 
changes to their local branches.once the code is completly tested then developers
can raise a merge pull request to master branch. 


anil is a developer in flipkart 
anil will create a master copy (branch)of production code. 
anil will start working on the new branch.
anil will make changes to new branch 
then anil want to push the code to production
then anil has to raise a merge pull request to exeperts in the company
only the exeperts or SME will have access to master branch 
there are SME in the company  are called as PR reviewers (pR pull request)
PR reviewers/SME will validate the logic and they will provide the comments 
now its upto the PR reviewer to approve the PR request or to reject 
the PR request. 
once RP reviewer approves it, then new feature will be merged to 
master branch and a release will be created from the master branch 
and code will be released from the release branch. 


anil is a developer 
      feature  --> new feature or functionality is in developement stage 
	  develope branch --> new feature is developed it will merged with 
	  development code  where nightly builds are given 
	   If everything works feature branch will be merged --> master 
	  from master --> release branch will be created 
	  and this release branch code is built with some semantic versioning 
	  
	    tomcat9.0.12 jenkin2.1.215 

commands: 
=========
 command to create a branch :
  
  git checkout -b feature/git-docs origin/master (this will create a local branch until unless you push the changes to git server 
  it wont reflect in the github)

git add . 
git status 
git commit -m "<commit message>"
git push origin HEAD 


	  

 

